So the plan was 180 for fours this week.
Next week 190 for threes. The week after
200 for twos and then the week after 210
for one. I had no guidance. I didn't
know what to do. I didn't know technique
and I didn't wasn't very intelligent
with my programming principles. And I'm
teaching you guys game changer for my
bench press strength wasn't the
programming. It was the technique. Today
we're training bench press. Every time
you tune in, I want you to know that I'm
going to teach you something new about
training and how to be stronger, look
better, move well, be injury-free.
Techniques we're going to teach you
today is bench press. I've got 180 kg on
the cards, which is quite heavy. I'm 100
kg guy. So, if you like what I do, you
can use it on yourself, and I promise
you, you're going to get great results.
But why should you listen to me? Well, I
am an elite level powerlifter. I've
learned from some of the best athletes
and coaches in the world. And I've used
these techniques to produce some of the
best athletes in the world, including
the world's strongest man. So, I'm going
to take you on a bit of a journey, not
just today, on all of my YouTube
channel, so that every single time you
tune in, I'm going to teach you
something new about programming as well
as lifting techniques, explain my
lifting techniques, and show you my
exact training program so that you can
copy my exact program and train the same
way. and you get that for free. Without
further ado, come with me. I've just
warmed up my dumbbell presses up to 30
kg each hand, which is the same weight
as my first working set. So, it's going
to be 60 kg and I'm going to go up in 20
kg jumps. And this is my powerlifting
technique that I learned from Kil
Sachev, who has bench pressed 335 kg.
He's far better than
me and most likely far better than most
people watching.
It's feeling pretty good today. And as I
warm up, I'm going to show you how I do
supersets. Now, these supersets are
called opposing muscle or non-over
overlapping muscle supersets. So, I like
to program push with pull. Every
program, there's two ways of doing this.
The way that I'm going to be doing this
is I'm just warming up with supersets.
When I do my top sets, so bench press,
because I'm going quite heavy, I'm not
going to superset that. But for most
people and me, when I'm not going heavy,
I will. I'll do a push and I'll pair
that with a pull. So that's a nonover
overlapping superset. So a different
type of superset is the same muscle
superset. What's the difference? So if I
was doing the same muscle superset, I'd
do a bench press and then maybe
supererset that with a fly or a push-up
or a dumbbell press or something like
that. That's the same muscle superset.
That's not appropriate if your goal is
strength. It's appropriate if your goal
is building muscle. But that's not my
goal here. My goal is to get stronger.
So don't do that superset because it's
too fatiguing. So non-over overlapping
muscle superset is better for strength
where I'll do the push and instead of
waiting. So this is what I am going to
be doing. I am going to wait because
strength is my priority and I'm at the
level where I need the recovery. I don't
want a super set because it will
interfere with my energy coming back for
a good consecutive set. But for most
people, including myself, when I'm
offseason, I'm not going so heavy, I can
do a set of bench press, you know, wait
two to four minutes and then do a set of
pull downs or pull-ups or rows or
something like that. So, push, wait two
to four minutes, pull, wait two to four
minutes, come back to the push again.
So, in total, it's like, you know, 6 to
8 minutes, rest between push and push
instead of just sitting like what I'm
going to be doing today because I am
going heavy, which is 180 kg. I'm going
to be doing a push and then I'm going to
wait 8 minutes and push again. What you
need to know about these supersets is
the benefits. Now, we're going to cut to
the chase and I'm going to tell you the
exact
benefit. Time saving. That's the only
benefit. I used to um believe there was
a lot of researchers or bro scientists,
what you should call them, they used to
say things like there's a neurological
carryover to super setting like this.
So, if you do a push and then super set
that with a pull, they make each other
stronger.
Uh, that's how I used to teach it as
well, but they
don't. They don't. So, if I do a heavy
push and I superset that with a pull, it
actually takes energy, requires energy.
So, usually, not so much that it makes
you weaker. So, it won't make you
weaker, but it absolutely doesn't make
you stronger. I shouldn't say it won't
make you weaker. It does make you
weaker. Very, very slightly, but usually
you won't even feel that it's uh
decreasing your performance in the
consecutive sets. So usually you'd be
able to most people at home including
myself and including some of the
strongest athletes in the world
especially in the
offseason you can do that and you should
do that because it saves a whole lot of
time. So in instead of spending two
hours in the gym you can do it in half
the time but that's the only benefit of
supersets. That's the only benefit of
supersets even same muscle supersets. So
it doesn't make you bigger or stronger
or faster or any of that. It just saves
time. Okay. 80
kg 20 kg jumps until I get to 180. And
then the objective is to get sets of
four, multiple sets of four. And the
objective is for that to be easy because
it's week one of my program. Quick
session on leg drive for the bench
press. There's lots of ways of using leg
drive. Some people use a flat foot. Some
competitions you need to have a flat
foot. In my competition, you don't need
to have a flat foot. And I like to be up
on the balls of my feet. And my leg
drive involves me pushing my heels
downwards. Why do I push my heels
downwards? It initiates the arch. Heels
down. That's called hip joint extension.
It starts my arch in my lower back which
carries over to the arch in my upper
back which allows me to set my shoulders
in place. Now, here's the common error
that you'll see a lot of people do is
they'll look at, you know, the position
of up on the balls of the feet and they
think that you should push through the
balls of your feet and you see the hips
come up. If the hips come up, you're
doing it wrong. What you need to do is
push the heels downwards and what
that'll do is rotate the pelvis on axis,
but it won't lift it. If it lifts, it's
because you're pushing through the balls
of your feet. Okay? So, I want you to
watch
this. What I'm aiming for is the sole of
my foot to be roughly 45°. Okay? So, I'm
relaxed and this is me pushing my heels
down. Do you see they're not touching
the ground, but I'm pushing downwards.
That's the downwards pressure. That's my
leg drive. Okay? So, when you aren't
doing that and you're pushing through
the balls and your hips come up through
the balls of your feet, not through your
balls, through the balls of your feet,
you're doing it wrong. The idea is push
the heels down and that allows your arch
to increase and allows you to get in a
stronger position.
And that is how you leg drive with my
technique. What the footwork and the leg
drive does to the remainder of the body.
So I mentioned how I bring my feet back
and push my heels down. That's called
hip joint extension. Hip joint extension
is paired with anterior rotation of the
pelvis. So when all these things happen,
that initiates the extension of my spine
or in other words, the arch in your
back. The next thing that the arch does
is you should try this at home. Arch
your back as hard as you can from your
head to your tail. So head back and tail
back and feel where did your shoulder
blades go. That's paired with an action
at the shoulder blades and that's
retraction. Okay? So it pulls your
shoulders back, which is the position
that I want them in for this wide grip
powerlifting style bench press. But just
because it naturally pulls them back
doesn't mean that's what you rely on for
them to come back. I want you to think
about pulling them back as well. Not
just back, back and down. So thinking
about pulling your shoulder blades back
and down towards your back pockets.
Right? So that's the position. Feet back
and heels down. Shoulder blades back and
down. The next thing that does is that
naturally externally rotates your upper
armbbone, which positions your elbows in
a tucked position. So, a lot of the
times when I teach a bench press, I
don't usually teach someone to tuck
their elbows, even though that's
something that I kind of want to happen,
but it's a movement that will naturally
happen as a consequence of getting in
this correct body position. So, it's
external rotation or tucking the elbows.
Okay? And push up and down. So, I say up
and down and think about pushing in a
straight line, but it won't be a
straight line. There'll be a straight a
slight curve to it, but if you think
about that curve, often you exaggerate
that curve and it goes into the wrong
bar part. So, there's going to be a
little bit more to it. I'm going to talk
about the grip position next, but have a
look at what I'm talking about with feet
back, heels down, and shoulders back and
down. Okay? So, that's all you're going
to look at for now. Ready? Let's
[Applause]
go. Thank you.
So that's uh if you hear me breathing, I
like to hold my breath for the entire
set. I don't want to
exhale even when I'm doing like a set of
10. I want to hold my breath for the
whole set. Now, I'm not telling you to
do that, okay? Because there are risks,
especially if you're older, if you have
cardiovascular disease, okay? Or if
you're pregnant or if you've got stuff
like that, definitely don't do that. But
if you want to do that, that's what I
do. And I'm not pregnant. I don't have
cardiovascular disease, I
hope. But I don't recommend you do that
for other exercises. The reason why I
recommend this for myself, not for you.
If you want to do the same thing as me,
it's stronger, I promise you. The reason
why we do it is because inhalation, so
as I say, feet back and heels down. And
and all of that is paired with the next
movement. Inhalation tops that off. So
inhalation elevates my rib cage, which
is paired with arching the upper back.
Do you get it? Now, that whole thing,
remember, it's paired with pulling my
shoulder blades back and down as well.
Now, the opposite is true if I exhale.
So, when you exhale, that's where my
lungs are underneath my rib cage. My
ribs will
depress. When my ribs depress, it might
make my spine lose a little bit of that
arch. Doesn't sound like a big deal, but
under maximum loads, how many
millimeters or how many degrees of arch
do you want to lose when you're trying
to lift the heaviest weights possible?
My answer is 0° or 0 mm. I want to
maintain that exact position. So, every
time you exhale, your shoulder blades
might come slightly a little bit out of
position. The reason why this is not so
good in a bench press is because I'm
laying on this
bench, which is exactly where my
shoulder blades sit. Unfortunately, that
restricts my shoulder blades from moving
freely. So, if I was doing a push-up,
you know, you can see my shoulder blades
protract as I push and they retract as I
come down. That doesn't happen when
you're laying on a bench. that bench,
especially when you're going really
really heavy in your hands, it's jamming
your shoulder blades into that bench and
they can't move freely, which is where
actually bench press is a is an
unnatural
movement. So that's why my
recommendation is to start them in the
position that is going to be the most
compromising. So what's that? That's
where the barbell's on your chest. So if
you ever see people tearing their pecs,
it's when the barbell touches the chest.
Why? because that's where the pec is at
the most stretched position and that's
where you see the pec go rip off the
bone. Because when the muscle is at its
most lengthened position, it is also the
weakest contractile strength. The
strongest is in its mid-range, right? So
when you typically what you want to do
is have your shoulders set in the
strongest position when the pecs at the
weakest position. Do you get it? Which
is pecs at the weakest position. I want
to lower that bar to my chest. Think
about a seated cable row. If you are
pulling a bar to your chest in a seated
cable row, where do your shoulder blades
need to be here? They need to be back,
which is exactly where I want them in
that bench press, in that bottom
position. So, that's why I want you to
start there. Because if you start where
the shoulders are naturally supposed to
go, which is protracted when your arms
are out here, you won't be able to
retract them when you're at the bottom
position where the pecs are in the most
compromising position. So, let's go
heavier and I'm going to talk about the
next cue, which is grip and how to hold
the bar. What you want to do is hold the
barbell in the strongest part of the
palm of your hand. So, imagine uh you're
a martial artist and you're going to do
a palm strike to somebody and you want
to hurt them as much as possible, but
you also want to protect your wrist.
Which part of the palm of your hand
would you hit them with? It would be the
part of the palm that's aligned with
your forearm bones. So, right here. So,
that's here. Except if you were to do
that, that's called a false grip, which
there are risks to this, the barbell
slipping out of your hands. So, this is
why it's recommended to wrap your thumb
around the barbell, which changes the
wrist position. So, if you got the false
grip, if you got the bar resting on the
forearms here, sorry, on the bones of
your forearm, you then have to
internally rotate your hands, and then
the bar will end up sitting kind of
diagonally on the palm of your hand. So
it's no longer on this part of the bone.
That's your radius. But it should be on
this part of the bone which is your
ulna. So have a look. So that's false
grip. And then when I internally rotate,
it's my hands internally rotated. It's
on that strong part of the hand. Right?
So that's internal rotation. Now if you
remember with the arch and the shoulder
blade position that I discussed, I
mentioned that it puts your elbows in
that tucked position which is externally
rotating. So, it requires some degree of
coordination to internally rotate your
hand, but then externally rotate your
shoulder. And that's the position that
you should be in when you're holding a
bench press. And you want to rest the
barbell on the strongest part of your
hand. It's actually called a bulldog
grip. You may have heard of that before.
Bulldog grip. Why is it called a bulldog
grip? Because if you ever have a look at
the way a bulldog stands, they stand
with their hands internally rotated like
that. Okay? But that's where it ends.
The hands are internally rotated, but
the elbows or the shoulder is externally
rotated. So that's what I'm going to be
doing
here. Beauty.
One more warm-up set, which is uh
160, and then we're
working. Where's my
tripod? I saw it
before. Set it up
here. This is also how I time my rest.
If you notice, I don't have a a watch
on, but the way that I set my timer, I
don't really set a timer. I record the
set, finish the set, and then I look at
the time that I recorded the set, and
that's how I know how many minutes rest
I've
had. So, I don't know how many minutes
rest I've had. Now, I don't need a full
rest. So, that was 140 kg uh for two
reps. Uh very far from fail, very far
from energy consuming. So, I don't need
a whole lot of rest. I'll probably take,
you know, roughly around 3 to 4 minutes
rest. But on this one, this is going to
be 160 for one, which is still not
completely fatiguing, but I do want a
full recovery because I don't want this
to interfere with my top set. So, I'll
probably rest from this one. Maybe about
5 minutes is all I'll need. But then
when I do a top set of uh the plan is
180 kg for four, um that will be
fatiguing. And to get a full recovery
from a set like that, I'll need about
eight minutes and even up to 10 minutes.
But this is week one of my program. So
the idea of this is for programming, my
recommendation is week one of a program,
don't take the movements to fail. Don't
train it as hard as you can. Leave you
want to leave repetitions in reserve so
that the following week there's room for
improvement. So imagine I do set of four
and it's like a grind out set. Where do
I go next week? Four reps again, but try
and do it better. the likelihood of if
this is a grind out, if that's my
absolute limit, 184 is my absolute
limit, it's pretty hard to get heavier
than that next week. So, what I want to
do is set myself up so I can come in
every consecutive week and go up. So,
week one of the program should be the
easiest to allow room for progression.
Week two should be a little bit harder,
but still allow for some progression on
week three, but that's when it should
start really getting hard. And then week
four is the idea of week four is to send
it. So, my goal, you know, if all goes
to plan, would be to do a 210 kg bench
press um on week four of this program.
So, the plan was 180 for fours this
week. Next week, 190 for threes, the
week after 200 for twos, and then the
week after 210 for one. All right, let's
have a go. Uh Alexander
Yeah. Come on. Thank
you. Let's go, bro.
Nice one. Comfortable.
Comfortable. Thank you, bro. One more
set. One more set.
Yeah, when I first started benching, um,
that's when I first started training.
The first ever training session with
weights was bench press. I did 30 kg for
eight reps. Um, I wanted more because my
friends were doing 40 kg for eight reps,
you know, which isn't that strong, but
they were stronger than me and I was I
remember I was really embarrassed. Um,
so then so from the age of 16, I didn't
like that feeling and I'm competitive
and uh yeah, so I came home and I bought
a bench press. I bought a bench and the
weights and all that stuff and I started
training home. Started training at home
uh and I'd just bench bench and do other
exercises as well. But every session was
a bench session and I do it about three
or four times a week. Um and then you
know in that age so at the age of 16 I
think I got up to about 80 or 90 kg and
then I stopped training till I was 19.
So stopped training and just was just a
school kid and whatever. Started
training again when I was 19 and same
thing again. Started with bench press
and always prioritized that and I didn't
squat. I didn't really care for legs.
was like, "Don't worry, you can wear
long pants." And um yeah, I just wanted
to have pecs and abs, you know. And so
that's what I did 4 days a week. And it
probably took a few years of training to
get to um start squatting and
deadlifting. And then, you know, I'd say
the first 10 years of my training, I got
up to 130 kg bench press at the at the
body weight of about 85 kg. And I wasn't
able to progress beyond that. Um my
technique was there was no technique. I
just laid down on the bench, feet flat
on the ground, and just pushed the heavy
thing off the chest. Didn't know about
body position or breath hold or hand
position or anything like that. And
there was no social media back then. No
one kind of doing what I'm doing to
teach these things for free. Um, of
course, there were powerlters that
understood this, but I didn't know how
to access these powerlters. They weren't
doing these things. Uh, anyhow, finally,
I learned how to do this technique, and
all of a sudden, I get to my first
milestone of 140 kilos. That same day I
got 145. So I wanted 140 and it's like
yes easy I got 145 but I was still flat
foot you know my grip was thumb to the
line because going wider than that was
uncomfortable and I wasn't arching as
well. But then from
145 I got to 160 in the next you know
year or two. And then from 160 to 180 it
took me another two years. So it's like
really really quick. Uh of course I
built muscle sorry I built body weight.
So, you know, when I got to 180 kg for
the first time, I weighed 90 kg. So, I
was a little bit heavier. And yeah, that
took me many years to do. Many, many,
many years to do. Um, the reason why I'm
talking like this is because my
videographer said, "Yeah, that's my
goal." And it's like, here's the thing.
Like, I've been doing bench for so many.
Like, I've been benching since day one
of my training. So, I'm 43 years old. My
first bench was 16 years old. Of course,
I stopped for 3 years and then started
back again at 19. So, u that's 24 years
straight of benching. And I'll tell you
now, I've got good bench press
proportions. I've got short arms, which
is a disadvantage for deadlifts, right?
So, no, I'm not the best bencher in the
world, but I'm not bad either, right?
So, so at the moment, I'd say, you know,
in 3 weeks I'll be going for a 210 and I
think I'll get it. But my best ever
bench press at 118 kilos body weight was
250 kg. It's pretty good, right? That's
a weight that most people won't ever
get. I don't think I'll ever get that
again, you know, not because I don't
want to go heavier. I want to stay at
100 kilograms body weight. So, you know,
when you want to make the comparison
thing like how long does it take to get
to these numbers? Well, you know, for
me, it took me to get to 140 kg, like 10
years of training. Not saying that's how
long it takes. I had no guidance. I
didn't know what to do. I didn't know
technique and I didn't wasn't very
intelligent with my programming
principles that I'm teaching you guys.
Uh, but the biggest um game changer for
my my bench press strength wasn't the
programming. It was the technique. It
was learning how to arch. Learning that
foot thing that I'm teaching you. Feet
back, heels
down. Okay. Pulling my shoulder blades
back and down. Breath hold. You know,
like where to lay on the bench. Um, how
to hold the
bar. If I had that, I'd have done these
numbers in half the
time. No doubt. No doubt. like you guys
have a huge advantage, you know. How
strong would I have been if id learned
these lessons earlier? I don't know. Uh
it's a hypothetical situation if you
know what I mean. So, we don't know. Um
but all I know is if you follow these
rules, I promise
you you will get stronger. We're going
to do one more set. And I'm giving
myself So, that was pretty comfortable.
I looked back at the video, it felt
like, you know, it felt heavy in the
hands. It was 180 kg. It felt smooth.
But then when I looked at it, I thought
that's the best I've made 180 kg move
since I've been 40. I'm 43 years old. I
want the next set to look that good. So
to do that, I'm going to rest at 8
minutes. I'm going to start putting my
wrist wraps on and getting my head on.
Let's do it, bro. One more
set.
Okay, let's go, bro. Same thing.
Yeah. Good one. Lucky you were there.
You know why? Because I unracked that
wrong. My shoulders slightly, it wasn't
you. felt that I pushed it wrong and you
corrected it. Yeah. So, it's like if I
was by myself, I would have come in with
a an awkward position and maybe I would
have either put it down. Excuse me one
moment. My pre-workout. So, for those
who aren't following, this is my
pre-workout. It's a long black with a
big teaspoon of honey. I say two
teaspoons because their teaspoons are
very small. So, if I was to make it
myself, I get a
teaspoon
heaped. There's my preworkout. Uh, this
one here, this is not pre-workout. This
is just tea because I like to sip on
flavored
water. That's all that is. And I sip on
those all day long. But my coffees, I'll
have like two like one before the
session, one during the
session. Now my main work is done.
That's fantastic. 180 for four. Uh what
RP do you call that? I call that I don't
know. RP8. I think if I just had to do
one all out set, I would have done six
reps. What do you guys think? Am I full
of it or is that about accurate? Six
reps for me, that means there's two reps
in reserve, which is RP8. And I think I
had two sets of RP8. I like that for a
start point for week one because then
that allows me to go heavier on next
week. So, I want to do 190 triples next
week. And that gives me confidence to be
able to do that. Of course, your energy
levels fluctuate from week to week. I
can't just assume that next week is
going to be stronger. I'm going to have
more energy or whatever it might be. You
can't assume that. That's why you got to
set yourself up with conservative weight
on week one to allow room for any
fluctuations in your energy levels. But
I think from this, and that's the next
thing as well, is building momentum and
confidence. So, walking out of today's
session 180 for 2x4, if I come in next
week and everything's kind of similar,
like my body weight's the same, uh, you
know, I'm well rested and all that, I'll
say, "Yeah, 180 for four was good last
week. 190 for three. I'm confident." uh
which is a huge part of your progression
is confidence and feeling good about
what you're going to do. So if I came in
and today was like grind out fourth rep,
I would be like very apprehensive with
190 for three next week. I'd think,
well, maybe I'm not ready for it. Maybe
I should only do 180 for 185 for three
or or I'd make those adjustments. But uh
that's the whole idea of starting
conservative. Next week 190 for three.
The week after 200 for two. And then the
next week it's 210 for one. And I want
210 for one to be easy. It's not just
like 210 for one is you maxing out. Like
I want that to be easy and I'm not going
to try and go heavier if I do that. I
hope it's easier because then I
recalibrate and then I do my next phase
where my ultimate goal is to do 220 kg
again in the 100 kg weight
class. Must is very proud of this one.
He's he's asking me to take a sip of my
water. I'll tell you why because he set
it up for me today. But this is correct.
Um, this is also my preworkout, my
post-workout, my daily hydration. It's
just it's not this this uh bottle that's
tap water inside here. It's just that
it's glass. I like glass bottles. Um,
and I refill it. And then I get a new
one every week, so it's clean. This is
375 mls of water. And I use about half a
teaspoon of salt. That's electrolytes.
That's sodium. How much salt should you
have? Uh there's a lot of good research
nowadays that says that salt is good for
you. A lot of people used to say salt
hardens your arteries. That's what I was
brought up on. Salt's bad for your heart
and all these things. Uh maybe it is if
you have a diet that's high in like fast
food and you eat out a lot and the the
food quality that you get is poor and
you know when you buy food from fast
food shops, they pour heaps and heaps of
salt in it. So if that's the case, you
don't need to add more salt. But if you
eat um you know mostly whole foods which
is what I eat. I eat lots of meat, lots
of veggies, lots of fruit. That doesn't
come with salt. So you need to add salt
to your food or include electrolytes
such as sodium. There's other
electrolytes as well but for rehydration
sodium is the most important. Of course
there's potassium and magnesium as well
which I also get through
supplementation. I take magnesium subs
at night. I also have a lot of potassium
with my food. bananas, kiwi fruits,
tomatoes,
um, spinach, that's my main source of
potassium. But anyway, sodium, right?
So, if you go to the doctor and they put
you on one of those saline bags cuz
you're dehydrated because you're you're
sick or whatever it is, they put you on
a one liter sodium one liter saline bag.
And have a look at the ingredients. It
is 9 g of sodium per liter. So, what's 9
g of sodium? That's equivalent to about
one teaspoon is about 5 g of salt which
is about four grams of sodium. So this
is half a teaspoon which would be about
2 g of sodium. So it's not that much.
The reason why I don't have more is
because it's not very tasty. It tastes
like the ocean. Uh but this is the
amount. So so one teaspoon per liter is
kind of like my sweet spot for for
flavor. Anything more than that starts
tasting like you're eating you're
drinking from the beach which is not
nice. M next up accessories. We're going
to do some dumbbell work. Now I will do
my pushing superset with pulling because
now my focus isn't to lift the heaviest
weight. So my accessories now main
exercise of the day is the highest
relevance to achieving your goal. So my
goal is to have a big bench press. So
that should go first when you have the
most energy. Then after that you want to
factor in whatever you neglected in the
main movement. So that was a flat press.
So on day one my accessory exercise is a
shoulder press. So, I neglected the
vertical push plane. And day two, I've
also neglected, you know, an incline
push plane as well. So, that's what my
accessories are is flat is the first
one. And then accessories on day one is
shoulder press. Accessories day two is
going to be incline press. And I will
superset that with more pulling
exercises. Did you see the difference in
my dumbbell pressing compared to what
you see at most gyms? And that is a
neutral grip. So, these are some of the
things that I factor in when I'm doing a
dumbbell press after I've done so much
bench pressing. So, with a bench press,
you're using a barbell and you're using
a pronated grip. So, that's where the
hands are on top of you. So, that's
pronated. That's supernated. If you want
a way to remember that soup, imagine
holding bowl of soup in your hand. So,
that's you have to supernate your wrist
for that. So, supernate, pronate, that's
how we hold a barbell.
Secondary exercise is joint angles that
you've neglected in the main movement.
So why would I do the same thing again?
So go from barbells to dumbbells with a
pronated grip. Now I've got the
opportunity to adjust the wrist
position. So typically, not always, uh
but typically if I'm starting with a
barbell, I'll do a dumbbell press as the
accessory. Uh next things that you might
see, this is not much of an incline, but
you don't need much of an incline. The
next thing you need to consider is I'm
not arching here. Don't arch on your
incline bench press. That defeats the
purpose. If I arch, I'm kind of just
making my body flat again. So, it
defeats the purpose. Now, that doesn't
mean that I don't think about keeping my
chest up. So, there's going to be a very
small arch, but it's not the same
exaggerated arch that you'd see in a
powerlifting style bench press. So, this
angle is a very small incline, but I'm
not arching. I don't recommend you arch.
So, flat feet, minimal arch, still poke
your chest up, neutral grip. Now, that's
slightly different angle to what you're
doing in the bench press to avoid
exercise redundancy. Okay? So, don't
just go straight from bench press with
an arch to dumbbells on a flat bench
with a pronated grip and arch. That's
doing the same thing. Anyway, so that
was just a feel set. I did 37 12. Um, my
first set I'll do 60 kg and I'll do two
sets of that. Probably eight reps is the
number that I had in mind. Uh, and I'm
going to be pairing that with seated
cable row.
feel set. Just do one. I'm already warm
now. I'm going to do one top set or two.
Two top sets. Lot of stretch. You think
that a stretch? Good one. Uh, so the
goal is to take the muscle from the
longest through the longest range of
motion. Full stretch, full contraction.
And there's a few ways of doing that. If
you notice that my body is swaying,
that's fine. A lot of people have their
opinions on this. Some people think that
that's cheating when you're swaying. I
disagree. So, what we're after is full
range of motion for the midback muscles.
So, they're attached to shoulder blades.
So, romboids and trapezius. So when you
want to target them in a full stretch
position, the shoulder blades need to
protract. So that's protraction, that's
retraction. Remember with the bench
press with the arch, the arch is paired
with retraction. Just like rounding your
upper back is paired with protraction,
right? So if I want to stay rigid and
not cheat and not move forward or back,
then I have to have a rigid torso and
I'm not taking my midback muscles into
full protraction. So to allow for some
protraction, allow for some flexion or
rounding of your upper back to get your
shoulder blades fully protracted. So
rounded extended or or flexion. So
thoracic flexion, thoracic extension to
get protraction of the scapula,
retraction of the scapula to get those
midback muscles strong through the full
stretch to the full contraction. And
that is how you perform seated cable row
for midback. for midback. Uh sets and
reps. I'm going to do three sets of 15
here. Why 15? Isn't it a strength day?
Yes. But four reps for my bench press,
you know, just cuz it's strength for
that exercise. You don't need to come
over to your every single accessory
exercise and do, you know, strength
protocols or four reps for everything
else. It's just not suitable. Have you
ever done a four rep set of seated cable
row? If you have, you probably looked
quite silly and you're probably left
feeling quite underwhelmed with your
muscle stimulation because it wouldn't
have been very stimulating. So, this is
why for my different exercises, don't
just be too rigid on, you know, oh,
we're doing strength, so we got to do
low rep ranges on everything. No, choose
the appropriate rep range for the
appropriate exercise. So, these
exercises, rows, if you can justify it,
you know, as low as eight reps, but even
me, I don't really like going as low as
eight reps. that's too heavy to use the
technique that I want to use. So, I like
to do, you know, 12 to to 20 rep range
for this exercise. And, you know, for my
dumbbell pressing, I typically like to
do, you know, six, I should say, I
shouldn't say 12 reps, but yeah, six to
12 reps for my dumbbell pressing. So,
that's what I'm doing. I'm doing eights
on my dumbbell press, and I'm going to
be doing uh 15s on my seated cable row.
That's 10. Yeah. So, that was easier
than I thought. And 10 wasn't uh to fail
either.
One more set of that. So, just because I
said eight, you know, this is the whole
thing of stick to the program. Do you
stick to the program? Yeah, I do. But
like these exercises, I'm fine to take
it closer to failure. The first exercise
of the day, I prefer not to. More
complex, more technical. These ones
here, it's lighter, less
fatiguing, which is one reason why you
don't take movements to failure to save
energy. But like, save energy for what?
I'm just going to do one more set of
this. I've already done my heavy stuff.
I don't need to save more energy. So, 10
reps either way. That was not to fail.
Anyway, 10 reps on that. I'll do one
more set and then I'll do uh superset
that with my seated cable rows and then
we're done. So, that's all. Hope you
enjoyed today's education session.
Backed up by actual heavy lifts. Copy
what I do and you will succeed. You're
welcome. Hope you've subscribed already.
Do I need to remind you I don't do that
thing? Click subscribe and I'll see you
next time. People are not subscribed.
60% are not subscribed. Come on guys,
what are you doing? It helps me a lot
and I'm going to keep on coming back for
you guys and educating you to be strong.
This is the stuff that I was missing in
my 20 plus years of training. I would
have gotten these numbers in half the
time had I known all of these things
that you guys do. So, click subscribe
and I'll see you next